Abigail Russ
aruss@terpmail.umd.edu
301-509-7612


Social:
https://twitter.com/AbbyORuss
https://www.linkedin.com/in/abigail-russ/

Tagline:
Truth in Verification

About Me:
My name is Abigail Russ, and I am currently a student at the University of Maryland, College Park, where I am working towards a dual degree in broadcast journalism at the Philip Merrill College of Journalism and economics at the School of Behavioral and Social Science. I am also a member of the Public Leadership Scholars program, which is a selective living and learning program offered by UMD. Outside of classes I am a campus tour guide and the treasurer of Alpha Phi Omega, a national service fraternity.

I am dedicated and excited to build a career in both journalism and economics, and look forward to learning and growing as a young professional.

Journalism Experiences:


Multiplatform Editing Intern
Patch.com through the Dow Jones News Fund | May 2021- Aug. 2021
Edited, fact checked over 600 articles and wrote headlines and “5 Things To Know” on the National, Georgia and Southeast desks
Competitively selected for the Dow Jones News Fund Multiplatform Editing Program
Southwest Journalist | Copy edited, wrote print and online headlines, designed sites with news judgment and created alternative story forms


Freelance Writer
Patch.com | Sept. 2021- Present
Expand Patch's presence in College Park and Rockville, Maryland by finding newsworthy, underreported community interest stories


Staff Writer
The Diamondback | May 2021-Present
Write bi-weekly articles covering the University Senate
Freelance reporter | Sept. 2020- May 2021


Copy Editor
Stories Beneath the Shell | Jan. 2021-Present
Edit weekly articles for AP Style and content, draft headlines


Teaching Assistant
Philip Merrill College of Journalism | Aug. 2021-Dec. 2021
Oversee Journalism 200: History Roles and Structures, organizing media participation assignments


School of Public Policy | Jan. 2021- May 2021
Help research and oversee Policy 101


Copy editor
WMUC News Station | Sept. 2020- Present
Write articles and headlines from audio, edit in AP Style


Camera Crew
Capital News Service | Sept. 2019-Present
Volunteer to run cameras for the bi-weekly news program


Other Examples
Alpha Phi Omega- Epsilon Mu Chapter | Feb. 2020- Present
Brother | Participate and plan service events in the College Park community
Treasurer | Dec. 2020-May 2022 – Set budgets, planned Financial Wellness Workshop
Leadership Committee Member | Sept. 2020-Dec. 2020


Maryland Images | Feb. 2020- Present
Tour Guide | Represents the University of Maryland while leading to prospective students on tours


Temple Beth Ami | Sept. 2016 - Present
Bar/Bat Mitzvah Tutor | Train students to sing trope and reinforce students Hebrew skills


Friendship Circle | Jan. 2016 - Aug. 2019
Teen Leadership Board Member | Oversaw fundraising and activities for children with disabilities


Education
University of Maryland • GPA: 3.89
Bachelor of Science in Journalism
Bachelor of Art in Economics
University of Maryland College Park Scholar: Certificate in Public Leadership
Earned "Semester Academic Honors" for four consecutive semesters
Expected Graduation: May 2023


Skills and Interests
Computer:
Adobe Suite
WordPress
HTML and CSS
Github
Microsoft Office
SEO and Social Media tools
Weebly, Wix
Rundown Creator
Research: Proficient with searching
JSTOR
PROQUEST
Lexis-Nexis
Dataminr
Language:
Conversational Spanish
Reading Hebrew
Personal:
Worked as a Varsity Assistant Quarterback’s Coach
Montgomery County’s first female, student coach


Selected Coursework


Journalism
First Amendment Law and Ethics
Storytelling with Code
Photojournalism and News Videography


Economics
Intermediate Macroeconomics, Microeconomics
Game Theory
American Economic History Before the Civil War


Other
International Relations
Foundations into Nonprofit Leadership
Remixing America Through Musical Theater

image: Russ_Abigail.JPG
